# Pairing on the BLS12-381 Elliptic Curve

This library is a simple and self-contained Haskell implementation of pairing
operations over the BLS12-381 elliptic curve. It contains prime-extension 
finite-field arithmetic configured over a tower (Fq1, Fq2, Fq6 and Fq12), the
full group law for both curve groups with sextic twist, and culminates in the 
Ate pairing. This pairing is used in the IETF CFRG draft specification in
[bls-signatures](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-irtf-cfrg-bls-signature/)

> **Please note:** This code is for educational purposes and is not suitable
> for production. While a limited testing infrastructure is provided, the code 
> may be incomplete, inefficient, incorrect and/or insecure. Specifically, 
> both the algorithms within the code and (the use of) Haskell's big integers 
> are clearly not constant-time and thus introduce timing side channels.
>
> This code has not undergone a security audit; use at your own risk.

The primary logic resides in `Crypto/Pairing_bls12381.hs`. The standard
Hackage documentation can be found at (to be revised!)
<https://hackage.haskell.org/package/abides-0.0.1/docs/Test-Abides-Control-Alternative.html>


## Quick start

After installing Stack, getting started is extremely simple and fast:

    $ git clone https://github.com/nccgroup/pairing-bls12381.git
    $ cd ./pairing-bls12381
    $ stack test
    
        pairing-bls12381> test (suite: pairing-bls12381-test)
    
        Running Tests
          huTstSmokeTest:  OK (1.99s)
          huTstCurve:      OK (0.76s)
          huTstPairingPts: OK (1.53s)
          huTstPairingMul: OK (2.25s)
          huTstPairingGen: OK (9.59s)
    
        All 5 tests passed (9.59s)

        pairing-bls12381> Test suite pairing-bls12381-test passed


## Straightforward API

The general flow is to first generate two pairs of points. Each pair consists
of one point from group 1 and another point from group 2. Then, each pair is
supplied to the pairing function and the results are compared for equality. It
is possible to perform interested operations within the scalars of each group
as demonstrated by the example below.

Points are typically generated by either using `pointMul` on a scalar and the
desired group generator, or by instantiating the point direction with 
`g1Point` or `g2Point`.


`g1Point :: Integer -> Integer -> Maybe (Point Fq1)`    
Given x and y, construct a valid point contained in G1.

`g2Point :: Integer -> Integer -> Integer -> Integer -> Maybe (Point Fq2)`    
Given xi, x, yi and y, construct a valid point contained in G2.

`g1Generator :: Maybe (Point Fq1)`    
The standard generator point for G1.

`g2Generator :: Maybe (Point Fq2)`    
The standard generator point for G2.

`pointMul :: (Field a, Eq a) => Integer -> Point a -> Maybe (Point a)`    
Multiply a positive integer and valid point in either G1 or G2.

`pairing :: Point Fq1 -> Point Fq2 -> Maybe Fq12`    
Pairing calculation for a point in G1 and another point in G2.

`prime :: Integer`    
The field prime constant used in BLS12-381 is exported for reference.

`order :: Integer`    
The curve order constant of BLS12-381 is exported for reference.

`smokeTest :: Bool`    
A quick test of externally inaccessible functionality; returns success.


## Example usage

Let's demonstrate the following equality (note the constants shifting positions):

`pairing((12+34)*56*g1, 78*g2) == pairing(78*g1, 12*56*g2) * pairing(78*g1, 34*56*g2)`

... where g1 and g2 are group generators. Below is a `ghci` interpreter session.

    $ ghci Crypto\/Pairing_bls12381.hs
    
    *Pairing_bls12381> p_12p34m56 = g1Generator >>= pointMul ((12 + 34) * 56)
    *Pairing_bls12381> q_78 = g2Generator >>= pointMul 78
    *Pairing_bls12381> leftSide = pairing <$> p_12p34m56 <*> q_78 >>= id
    *Pairing_bls12381>
    *Pairing_bls12381> p_78 = g1Generator >>= pointMul 78
    *Pairing_bls12381> q_12m56 = g2Generator >>= pointMul (12 * 56)
    *Pairing_bls12381> q_34m56 = g2Generator >>= pointMul (34 * 56)
    *Pairing_bls12381> pair2 = pairing <$> p_78 <*> q_12m56 >>= id
    *Pairing_bls12381> pair3 = pairing <$> p_78 <*> q_34m56 >>= id
    *Pairing_bls12381> rightSide = (*) <$> pair2 <*> pair3
    *Pairing_bls12381>
    *Pairing_bls12381> (==) <$> leftSide <*> rightSide
    Just True


## References

* Pairings for beginners, Craig Costello, <http://www.craigcostello.com.au/pairings/PairingsForBeginners.pdf>
* On the Implementation of Pairing-Based Cryptography, Ben Lynn PhD Dissertation, <https://crypto.stanford.edu/pbc/thesis.html>
* BLS12-381: New zk-SNARK Elliptic Curve Construction, Sean Bowe of Zcash, <https://electriccoin.co/blog/new-snark-curve/>
* BLS12-381 For The Rest Of Us, <https://hackmd.io/@benjaminion/bls12-381>
* Pairing-Friendly Curves, draft-irtf-cfrg-pairing-friendly-curves-04, <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-irtf-cfrg-pairing-friendly-curves/>

Copyright (c) 2020 Eric Schorn, NCC Group Plc; Provided under the BSD-3 License.